---
layout: post
title: Apartment hunting
tags:
- lisboa
status: publish
type: post
published: true
meta: {}
---
This post is actually part 2 of <a
href="http://andrewsblog.org/2007/09/15/first-days-in-lisboa/">first
days in Lisboa</a> and talks about day 2 and 3.

### Nathalie leaving for Coimbra

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/andruby/1378517415/in/set-72157602000572814"><img alt="Leaving for Coimbra" height="163" src="/images/leaving_for_coimbra.jpg" width="240" /></a>

When I woke up this morning it took me a second or two to realize where
I was. I was at the youth hostel in Lisbon, I had to find an apartment
to stay for the next 5 months and my girl was going to leave to her
erasmus city in a few hours. It's strange to be here. A few months ago
we were only vaguely talking about going on erasmus and now we're really
here. I kinda like the adventure.After breakfast I went with my
girlfriend to Orient station to say goodbye. She's going to study
Portuguese and Spanish in <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coimbra"
title="Wikipedia Entry: Coimbra">Coimbra</a>, a university city 200km
north of Lisbon. I hope it's a nice city with friendly people. Maybe
I'll visit it in a couple of weeks. <i>(she has a dutch blog <a
href="http://nathaliekesblog.blogspot.com/" target="_blank">here</a> if
you want to read more about her adventures)</i>. Goodbye's are never
fun, but this one was particularly hard because I was worried about her
going to a new city all by herself.Anyway the train left and I wondered
around a bit before going back to Alec to start our apartment hunt.

### Searching for 2 nice rooms in Lisboa

One thing we knew by now was that Portuguese people aren't very keen on
using email as a communication device. I think we sent about 20 emails
before we came to Portugal and only received 3 or 4 replies. So we
phoned every number we could get a hold of with Alec's new portuguese
sim card. <i>(if you want my or Alec's new number, drop me a <a
href="mailto:andrew@bedesign.be">mail</a> or leave a comment)</i>We saw
some ugly apartments. My god, sometimes it feels like there're really
ripping off erasmus students (or foreign people in general). One place
was on the 5 or 6th floor of a building that looked like it could
collapse any time, smelled like they used cat urine as paint and had a
'sales' lady that said it was in a bad neighborhood.We saw one super
apartment though in Bairro Alto (the older and nicer city part where all
the bars are located). The apartment was owned by a female photographer
so it had a lovely design interior. Must have been by far the coziest
apartment I've seen here. Unfortunately she was only renting 2 rooms and
we'd have to live with her. (she is a little crazy) We prefer an
apartment with other students! There was a german girl staying there now
who came here on erasmus 2 years ago. She gave us some good tips and
showed us the 'erasmus' bar later that evening.Luckily Alec met a
Slovenian girl (Anna) in the youth hostel who had found a place which
had 2 rooms left. It's an OK apartment perfectly located close to the
metro and in walking distance from Bairro Alto (very important). The
owner, Carlos (which is pronounced Car-<a
href="http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/louche" title="louche -
Definitions from Dictionary.com">louche</a>, funny if you know French),
is a nice guy who showed us the rooms. After thinking about it for a day
we decided to take it, mainly because there are 6 other erasmus students
living here.

### L'Auberge Espagnol

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/andruby/1398901951/"><img alt="View from my room" height="160" src="/images/view_from_my_room.jpg" width="240" /></a>

So now we've been living here for 5 days with a Slovenian girl, an
Italian girl, a French girl, a Slovakian guy, a Czech guy and a Polish
girl. A nice mix of cultures if you ask me. A bit like the french movie
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/L%27Auberge_espagnole"
title="L'Auberge espagnole - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia">L'Auberge
Espagnol</a>.  We've been going out to the bars at Bairro Alto
since.<i>(I hope I'll have time to write a post about it)</i>
